hello everyone and welcome to another
episode of Travis talks this is the
first bit of content that I've been able
to create in the new year so hope your
holidays were good and I decided to put
this together kind of last minute based
off of some of the discussions that I
saw breaking out on reddit today because
I believe it was either yesterday or
earlier today I've been a little busy
but some news broke about selfie the
player selfie and sort of the position
he finds himself in as he was you know
dealing with all this cloud9 stuff and
there's conversations about whenever he
was able to start looking and whatever
the whole point is that is not what this
video is about I don't know enough about
that information to really comment on it
and I think I'd mostly just be rehashing
what's already out there so that's what
not what this video is about but I do
think that there are some interesting
things that are spawning because of it
in one of the top stories on the league
of legends subreddit today is sort of a
discussion that while you know selfie is
in the situation we haven't seen any
information about the any any word from
the NA LCS players union about this
there's a some interest or you know
confusion about what's actually going on
there and why anything you know why
they're not more actively and talking
about all this stuff
so also in those comments I saw people
saying that they didn't even realize
that the Players Association existed now
and so because of that I'm gonna go
ahead and do a little bit of just a
recap of what happened with the Players
Association but also sort of my take on
what's going on there and share a little
bit of the rumors that I've heard about
the Players Association so people who
are interested in it you can find out
more so again to recap basically at this
towards the beginning of last year
whenever riot announced that they were
going to be doing franchising if the law
a sports page never loads there we go
June 1st actually I guess it wasn't too
early last Syria June 1st whenever riot
announced that they were going to be do
Frank during franchising they announced
revenue sharing changes the structure of
the league and then finally this giving
pros a larger voice and better protect
in section which as we scroll down on
the page you will see has really start
to talk about basically them building a
players association and there was an
interesting kind of conversation that's
spun up around all this stuff because
the question was is this a huge conflict
of interest that riot is financing the
Players Association and yes actually
it's completely a huge conflict of
interest but it kinda doesn't matter
because you know in the right a threaded
a Chris Greeley was even pointing out
Chris Greeley who works at riot and
managed as all of the league operations
was even pointing out that until it's
entirely funded by the players you can't
create it into what's called a player's
Union it's it can only be this players
association right so admittedly I think
everyone agrees that there's conflict of
interest here the problem is none of
that matters because the players were
never going to finance this anyway and
so I think riot made the strategic
decision of look we want to make sure
that players aren't left out in the cold
as owners and right come together and
this players sorry in this new
franchising situation and so they
created this association so that the
players can have a place to really kind
of come together and make sure that
their voice is heard now the thing that
always the only thing I do have an issue
with because I again I think it's fine
that right funded it because the players
are never going to fund this thing we'll
get into that in a second the only thing
that I did take some issue with is when
I interviewed Whalen and Jared back at
Yahoo whenever all this stuff came out
and I asked some questions about the
Players Association and basically you
know in the structure of this new
franchising thing how what kind of power
does the Players Association have how's
that spelled out and these new deals can
the player to the Players Association is
it a voting system you know how how can
Players Association influence the things
that happen in the league and it was
very kind of a vague answer and so from
my guess there's no way that the Players
Association can force a change if riot
doesn't want that
happen or if the teams don't want that
change to happen whatever we'll talk
about that later or maybe just a little
bit of extra context I think for the
players association but as I said before
players were never gonna fund this thing
there was not much of an interest in
them spending a bunch of money to create
this so I just didn't see it on the
horizon at all so I think it's kind of
nice that it exists in the first place
now after that announcement riot held a
meeting I don't think this was discussed
too much publicly but from talking about
people all it's my understanding that
right held a meeting between all the pro
players and several different candidates
that Wright had selected admittedly
Wright selected them for people who'd
run the Players Association and I think
at that meeting there were three
different people brought out in front of
everyone and the players could vote on
who they wanted they could also vote
that they didn't want any of those three
candidates and new people would be
brought in anyway the votes came in and
the person they picked with picked was
how biagas
who I don't really know too much about
but I understand that he worked with the
NBA Players Association previously and
if you kind of do a cursory look around
online dude's been around in the sports
industry for about 20 years house
experience as a lawyer and seems like
generally a pretty good fit for this job
and I guess I should say probably my
ability to assess this guy is about as
good as all the players ability to
assess this guy because none of us are
like big sports executives sports
lawyers people with whatever basically
you're just gonna look at his resume and
say is he good is he not based on the
resume him whatever his presentation was
the one that's stuck and so I guess by
around mid-june this person had been
voted in again apology so if I'm
mispronouncing your last name he'll be
August now at the same time blitz
eSports is a pretty cool thing where
they spoke with several different
players about all the stuff and and I
think their answers reveal a lot of what
I already knew
right which is basically players are not
interested in a player's Association
they're not interested in financing a
player's Association and they're not
thinking about a Players Association so
all I think it's it's arguable that the
fans and reddit is more concerned about
a players association than the players
are I don't think that's a good thing by
the way that's just kind of the way it
is because if you look at some of their
answers and I'm not starting the single
these guys out I don't think that any of
they're just all being honest here but
you know like lumination said none of us
players know what a union does or what
they're supposed to do how it's going to
be run or anything like that so we need
somebody to come in etc and he basically
talked about how like people just didn't
you know somebody got a lot of the votes
which was how and a lot of other people
just probably didn't even vote so you
know not not too much stuff going on
there special then said that he kind of
came in and talked to them a lot about
this different stuff he says at the end
honestly it's tough when you have so
many people that don't really care and
even myself I don't know too much about
what we need to do it's tough and being
that I've been a player so long it's
like if I don't know what to do I don't
think anyone else does so kind of just
talking about the situation where like
players don't really know how to handle
this situation and a lot of people don't
care about it and then down here a
firmest says that one of the nice things
about this guy was that basically he
came in and the players didn't really
set up the thing and Wright said oh so
they didn't know what they wanted this
guy kind of pitched all this stuff so my
whole point here is just players didn't
care too much about this and would have
never really done it on their own and
that has implications for what the
Players Association accomplished now
so let's talk about players assoc
players association now which is about
six months later a little bit over six
months later so you know that article
which I talked about earlier the Selphy
article I appreciate it but I do think
it's a little over the top
no offense the article but in its first
big test the NA LCS Players Association
has failed to even register on the rate
radar as a fur over cloud rights
treatment rages on okay this thing this
news broke like 24-hour in the past 24
hours like you can see it's raging on
this is probably not its first big test
by the way there have been other
situations that have happened let's not
look at this situation and be like this
is this is how we will test the Players
Association we can draw all these
conclusions from this one situation I do
think that the articles intent and the
author's intent of discussing the look
here's a situation where maybe the
Players Association could make a comment
and they're silent I think that's a fair
statement to make I don't think that you
need to draw too much about what's going
on behind the scenes with the Players
Association from this but raises a good
point which is Players Association has
yet to say anything really publicly it
seems like it's working pretty much
behind the scenes with the players and
so it's not you know as as I did
interviews with the owners as right has
come out and talked about the teams that
they selected you know the the Players
Association has been very quiet and
hasn't even really discussed too much
about their goals or anything so that's
kind of interesting that you know six
plus up months later we haven't heard
too much there the next thing is a rumor
that I've heard from talking to certain
people and the rumor is that attendance
there are have been a couple meetings
for this association and that attendance
is pretty bismil and that it is I have
heard sub 20% that the majority of
players don't show up to these meetings
the vast majority of players don't show
up to these meetings and it is hard
going to be difficult and hard for the
Players Association to do much
if the players themselves don't put too
much time into it and don't think about
it too much and again it's not
surprising to me that players are not
concerned about this because a lot of
the players plan on leaving the league
in the next couple of years think about
all the veterans that are probably gonna
retire for them I think there isn't I
kind of disagree with this but I think
there is a thought that the Association
can't do much for them because it's more
about this is a long-term thing and so
the work that it does now will come into
fruition you know three four or five ten
years down the line maybe not effective
now so another reason why I don't think
that those players want to put money
into it on the other hand the rookie
players really need the veterans to be
the big voices for this association
you know the veterans are the people
that have gone through all these
experiences in the past that know sort
of the pitfalls of all this and also
have the weight you know let's say for
instance that the season was too long
for the players they didn't like it if
you had doublelift aphromoo bjergsen
lemon high all these big names come out
publicly in a statement with the Players
Association saying that they're very
upset with the length of the season and
that they think it's too long and that
right needs to shorten it right this is
just a hypothetical that would be
perhaps really compelling and
interesting and spark a big conversation
and create a dialogue about you know how
much does the like it'll force riot to
at least acknowledge the Players
Association and you see this interesting
showdown of well Players Association has
posited this as an issue will write it
do anything about it or will they just
ignore it big situation right I don't
think that situation occurs if those
players don't really care because maybe
they're leaving soon I'm not saying that
all of them don't care some of them do
and I
no but I think that veteran players
probably don't care too much about that
stuff and about the long-term goals of
this association because they are on the
way out and conversely the rookie
players I think don't have the weight to
sort of start that dialogue so that is I
think one of the major challenges that
this association will face and the
rumored low attendance if that is true
again I don't have statements from
people corroborating that but it's based
on the conversations I've had if the
attendance is low then I think that
illustrates again like people don't
really care about this stuff and I I
think you know as I discussed before
there are even questions about you know
how strongly this association even in a
world where everybody is participating
in it how strongly they can negotiate
with riot because there's not
necessarily any structure from my
understanding at least based on the
conversations that I had when this whole
thing was announced that makes it so
that the Association has to sign off on
rule changes and stuff right like I'm
sure riot consulted the players and the
Players Association when they switch to
best of one but do I think that the
Players Association signed off on best
of ones and that this was a mutual
negotiation between the teams riot and
the players decision probably not so
there's questions about how effectual
this thing is anyway and then based on
sort of some of the comments that Chris
Greely again the the rightly GOP's
gent who's in the reddit thread right
now about the Players Association it
sounds as though the effectiveness of
this right now it's more based just
around being kind of you know a while
ago snoop a and Bryce Blum announced the
idea that they were going to be doing up
a player's resource center don't really
know what the status of that is right
now but the whole idea was there's going
to be essentially what it sounds like a
center that or an organization that an
entity that players could go to for
advice on legal matters and contract to
speak
some whatever it sounds like that's
basically what the Players Association
has become and that it's less about
public statements and more about working
independently behind the scenes to help
the players resolve their issues or we
don't give them advice you know should
you do this should you not is this a
good contract is it is it not you know
do I have the right to do this based off
of stuff I've signed previously whatever
so I guess my whole point is yes that
article that came out on the liquid site
the liquid editorial site na LCS Players
Union silence and c9 selfie drama it
raises an interesting topic and thought
process about you know should the
Players Association be talking more and
be more vocal and be putting these
statements out all I'm doing here is
giving all of you guys the context for
why I'm not really surprised to see that
situation or the hep that this is the
way it's playing out and I have actually
attempted to I was going a couple
different routes to try to get an
interview with Hall B August again to
sort of discuss some of the rumors that
I've heard and the state of the Players
Association and sort of the goals etc
and then again sort of based on all this
renewing my attempts to get him contact
with him for an interview so if anybody
knows how to contact him I'd love to
talk to him I think it'd be an
interesting conversation we can learn
more about this and hopefully you guys
have sort of enjoyed this conversation
either way I hope to see more out of the
Players Association in 2018 who knows
what's gonna happen for else you can
support my content there's a link right
over here and you can't really click it
but it'll be in the description of the
YouTube video and if you want to support
my content that'd be great everyone runs
adblock so that's a great way for me to
to survive thanks for watching